MFA Content Restructure (#8803)
auth0/docs: articles/mfa/concepts/guardian.md

---
title: Auth0 Guardian
description: Understand how Guardian works and how Guardian SDK helps you build your own authenticator and Guardian-like applications.
topics:
  - mfa
  - guardian
  - android
  - iOS
contentType:
  - concept
useCase:
  - customize-mfa
---
# Auth0 Guardian

Auth0 multi-factor authentication (MFA) is available as five factors:

* One-time password
* SMS
* Push
* Duo
* Email

> Auth0 Guardian is a service that provides both push notification generation and an application for allowing or denying requests. push sends notification to a user’s pre-registered device - typically a mobile or tablet - from which a user can immediately allow or deny account access via the press of a button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auth0 Guardian is a mobile app that can deliver push notifications on a user’s pre-registered device - typically a mobile or tablet - from which a user can immediately allow or deny account access via the press of a button. It can also generate one-time passwords if that factor is preferred.
```

> The push factor is offered with the Guardian mobile app, available for both iOS and Android. In addition, the technology is also available as [whitelabelled Guardian SDK](https://auth0.com/blog/announcing-guardian-whitelabel-sdk) which can be used in custom mobile applications to act as second factor push responder. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The push factor is offered with the Guardian mobile app, available for both iOS and Android. In addition, the technology is also available as a [whitelabelled Guardian SDK](https://auth0.com/blog/announcing-guardian-whitelabel-sdk) which can be used when developing custom mobile applications to allow those applications to accept push notifications for Auth0 MFA and other purposes as well.
```

> Auth0 Guardian is available on ([Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.auth0.guardian) and the [App Store](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/auth0-guardian/id1093447833?mt=8)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Auth0 Guardian is available on [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.auth0.guardian) and the [App Store](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/auth0-guardian/id1093447833?mt=8).
```

> The Guardian functionality relies on vendor-specific push notification services which you need to configure. 

Reviewer: I don't know the answer to this, but this statement and the next few paragraphs through "How it Works" directly contradict each other, it seems. You will need to know about and use vendor specific services, here are link(s), but also, we don't rely on those, we use another thing, it will handle those for you.

Author: You're right. I'll remove the previous statement.

::: note
See the documentation for [Apple Push Notification service (APNs)](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/APNSOverview.html) for details on setting up APNs. 
:::

## How it works

Instead of integrating with each vendor-specific push notification service, Auth0 push notification is implemented using AWS Simple Notification Service (SNS) which handles the vendor specific integration. 

![Guardian Functionality](/media/articles/multifactor-authentication/guardian-functionality.png)

## Guardian and push notifications

When enabling push, end-users will need to have Auth0 Guardian or a custom application built with the Guardian SDK installed in their device. The app is sent push notifications when the user attempts to authenticate, and the user must respond to it in order to login, ensuring that they not only know their login information but also possess the device set up for MFA.

> End users will be prompted to download Auth0 Guardian when trying to sign up or log in to your application. Once they indicate that they have successfully downloaded the app, a QR code will appear on screen. They will have a short amount of time in which to scan the code with the designated app. Once this is done, they should see a confirmation screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
End users will be prompted to download Auth0 Guardian when trying to use push notifications for MFA for the first time. Once they indicate that they have successfully downloaded the app, a QR code will appear on screen. They will have a short amount of time in which to scan the code with the designated app. Once this is done, they should see a confirmation screen.
```
